>> Jerome Hardaway: For those of you
who don't know what GitHub Pages is,
it is also a special repository for
GitHub.
What you do to build your GitHub Page,
is you create a repository that
says your username.github.io.
That is how you create
the repository that populates this.
Now, for
those who have never been exposed to it,
what it does is it populates and
builds an entire website for you.
You could do plain HTML,
CSS JavaScript, or you can use Jekyll
as a build tool if you wanna use it for
blogging and things of that nature.
In my github.io, in my GitHub Pages
page I have everything that I want to,
like the sections that I have,
my deployment and
how I use it, where to navigate.
How to contact me, either via Twitter or
on LinkedIn, preferably LinkedIn,
and I have the link right here to
go into my portfolio based on this.
Now, I still follow rules,
some rules that I follow.
I believe in white space,
had a profile pic,
I chose a nice color, I prefer color blue.
I added an API,
I literally pick the easiest API to add,
and that is the weather app API.
Let people know what's the weather
in my hometown, right?
Like that, I didn't code that,
that's just an API usage, right?
So now when you're sitting here,
like, he did that?
Let me go into his code, script.js, and
see how his code is looking to do that.
Now we have that answer, and
we can go forward like, all right, so
he did actually code that.
And that's how I do things, right?
Now I have my story.
Now, one thing that I wouldn't
recommend on a portfolio for
a user is, if you're in a job market,
having so much text.
I have that story that people usually go
to my websites and things that nature for
the marketability of like,
I wanna learn more about bits of code,
versus I wanna see you're a good employee,
right?
They go to my LinkedIn and
GitHub for that, right?
So, seeing this,
this is sort of my journey.
And I have my work, right?
Now, this is where I did
something that I thought was cool.
And I instead of adding a bunch of
pages as all this stuff was live,
I just added cards and used icons.
And they linked to things, as you see,
that pops up at the bottom that
are alive out here, right?
So people can now see,
there's a lot of live content out
there for Jerome, for his work.
Now, if I was to continue
to build up on this,
I would add user pages, or
things like that to these.
So I have user stories,
case studies for each one.
Although there'd be some weird
case studies for this, okay.
How does the Business Insider
developers story have a case study?
They just wrote an article on me and
included me in it, that's it, right?
So one thing that you can do for pages,
so a lot of people don't tell you,
this is one thing that I
push on my students now.
And that is, now that you have your
colors, your theme for your design doc,
start theming your other projects,
so that way it's easier for
you to build them and
you can turn them like this one.
Like I said, this is a project, I was
like, no, the branch isn't protected.
All the rules that I would do are broken,
right?
This is the project that has
a very funny story to it.
My kid, I literally picked this
project out of the woodwork.
I just came from the flu, 2018,
I had the flu and I had to get up,
help my kid with a school project,
he told us at the last minute.
So he had to do the research and
I ended up having to have code it out
because he didn't know what he was doing.
And I didn't wanna go to the store for
a poster board talking about Nashville,
where we lived.
So we coded this up and
I didn't know that you could do this
until I learned this by accident.
You can go into your Settings and
you go to Pages, and
you can deploy any repo on
GitHub now directly into Pages.
That's one thing that my troops
are now doing, they're now going into
the projects, into the repos,
and they are now making it live.
If I was to go, let's do this real quick,
I could just make a new repo, right?
New repo, hello-world.
Just like I said, boom, choose owner.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Testing.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Create a public repo.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Don't
do any of this stuff.
I'm just going to,
>> Jerome Hardaway: Go
straight into Create a codespace.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Remy's there,
so that's cool.
Now I'm right here,
I can be just, right, perfect.
Touch.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Index.html.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Ls, right here.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Now here.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Html:5, bam,
hello-world.
Gotta love Emmett, right?
>> Jerome Hardaway: Commit it up,
all right.
>> Student 1: I think you gotta
put a commit message on line one.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Update,
thank you, man.
>> Student 1: I don't know
if you [INAUDIBLE] that.
You can then close, maybe.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Yeah, well.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Okay, go over that.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Yes, but
now we're gonna go here and
find that repo now.
>> Jerome Hardaway: 91 repositories,
hello-world.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Index.html
is in there, Settings,
Pages, GitHub Pages, Branch, Main, Save.
All right, now let's see what happens.
It is still pending.
So, it's gonna take some
time to build it out.
Once it comes back,
we will definitely show it.
Yes, sir?
>> Student 1: Is there a benefit
to doing this GitHub Page
approach versus hosting it yourself?
And would you ever have both for
whatever reason?
>> Jerome Hardaway: I like this approach
when it comes to making it a more modular
style of doing my code, or
if I have a project that I'm planning out.
For instance, let's say I'm
doing a project on patterns and
I wanna make the patterns a different
project or a different repo.
But I have the theme, I add that to my
repo, I go and have those patterns in
there, and I just have each pattern
out as a different repo, right?
If I'm spacing out my work,
this is one process I would do.
Or if I have a fully fledged project that
I wanna have live that has absolutely
nothing to do with the code base,
and I wanna just save it there.
Let's say I have a Gatsby app,
that's totally different, right?
Like the Eric app is totally different
from this, I don't know why.
Yeah, right here,
it's totally different than this stuff.
So let's say I wanna do my own URL,
I have a different project, the same URL,
and I just have with this URL and
I just mask it with another URL.
And have GitHub be my hosting company for
it on my hosting site.
So that's one way I like to use
a GitHub Pages as the hosting,
especially on the frontend,
as primary hosting tool.
You might not, that's fine, but I
definitely recommend you use it that way.
I use Vercel on everything now.
I used to use Gatsby and
Netlify a lot, but now I use Gatsby.
Now it's just all Vercel for
most of my work.
But when it comes to my portfolio stuff,
I try to keep everything as contained on
GitHub as possible,
even showcasing this work like this.
So that's a great opportunity to
have a repo that has absolutely
nothing to do with your portfolio.
And host it using GitHub Pages and
then turn around and having and
showcasing that work without having
to spin up another hosting site.
It's like spinning up a different
environment on GitHub.
>> Student 2: You can have
a data-driven application.
You can connect to an API from here,
can't you?
>> Jerome Hardaway: Yes, you can.
I have an API like this right here,
it's being done by API.
I don't know the weather back home,
I have no idea.
I definitely don't know Celsius.
[LAUGH] I'm an American,
I have no idea what Celsius is.
So all that's being pulled
directly from the API, and
it's coming from the JavaScript and
API key.
So that's one of the things that
you have especially doing frontend,
I always recommend using an API.
And Open Weather API is one of
the easiest, lowest hanging fruit APIs,
again, have and throw on a project.
So, hey, I'll just take this tiny API,
put it right here using the frontend.